[Workers Logs] Observability docs for Workers Logs (#17028)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Workers Logs
head: []
description: Store, filter, and analyze log data emitted from Cloudflare Workers.
sidebar:
  order: 2
  badge:
    variant: tip
    text: New

---

import { TabItem, Tabs, Steps } from "~/components"

> Workers Logs is a fully managed service that allows you to collect, store, filter, and analyze logging data emitted from Cloudflare Workers. Logs include [execution logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#execution-logs), [custom logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#add-custom-logs), errors, and uncaught exceptions. All newly created Workers will come with the observability setting enabled by default. Workers Logs is available to all developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workers Logs lets you to collect, store, filter, and analyze logging data emitted from Cloudflare Workers. Data is written to your Cloudflare Account, and you can query it in the dashboard for each of your Workers.

Logs include [execution logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#execution-logs), [custom logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#add-custom-logs), errors, and uncaught exceptions.
```

- don't think "managed service" adds
- think you hit on who it is available to by covering limits/pricing below

Author: Going to keep the part on 'enabled by default'. I believe that's an important clarification because it's a billable product.

![Example showing the Workers Logs Dashboard](~/assets/images/workers-observability/preview.png)

> If you want to send logs to a third party, use [Workers Logpush](/workers/observability/logging/logpush/) or [Tail Workers](/workers/observability/logging/tail-workers/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send logs to a third party, use [Workers Logpush](/workers/observability/logging/logpush/) or [Tail Workers](/workers/observability/logging/tail-workers/).
```

## Enable Workers Logs

:::note[Wrangler version]

> Minimum required Wrangler version: 3.77.0. Check your version by running `wrangler version`. To update Wrangler, refer to [Install/Update Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/).

Reviewer: Unfortunate that there is a dependency on the client CLI here

:::

> You must add the observability setting for your Worker to emit logs to Workers Logs. To add the setting to your Worker, add the following to your `wrangler.toml` file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must add the observability setting for your Worker to write logs to Workers Logs. Add the following to your Worker's `wrangler.toml` file:
```

	```toml
	[observability]
	enabled = true
	head_sampling_rate = 0.01 # optional. default = 1.
	```

> 	Specifically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 	- The default value for `head_sampling_rate` is 1, meaning 100% of your logs are sampled. `head_sampling_rate` can be set to a value between 0 and 1. For example, 0.01 indicates that 1% of your logs are sampled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value for `head_sampling_rate` is 1, meaning 100% of your logs are sampled. `head_sampling_rate` can be set to a value between 0 and 1. For example, 0.01 indicates that 1% of your logs are sampled.
```

> The default value for `head_sampling_rate` is 1, meaning 100% of your logs are sampled. `head_sampling_rate` can be set to a value between 0 and 1. For example, 0.01 indicates that 1% of your logs are sampled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Head-based sampling](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#head-based-sampling) allows you choose what percentage of incoming requests to your Workers are logged. The default value for `head_sampling_rate` is 1, meaning 100% of your logs are sampled. `head_sampling_rate` can be set to a value between 0 and 1. For example, 0.01 indicates that 1% of your logs are sampled.
```

> ### Enabling with environments

Reviewer: Not opposed but don't 100% follow why we need to explain this part here? Do we think this is something we should do more to explain every time we are describing configuration of something in `wrangler.toml`? Maybe we should and just haven't been.

Reviewer 2: Good point. If there's a particularly unique relationship that Workers Logs has with the environments functionality I think conveying that here would be valuable. If you want to explain that you can collect different metrics on the same Worker as deployed across different environments and use different sampling rates for each, then keeping this section could be worthwhile.

Author: I added this section because I want to demonstrate setting different sampling rates for different environments -- a common use case. Documenting it also provides coverage for this common asking question.

Reviewer 2: I think that makes sense. Might be worth briefly explaining what head sampling is here as well, since it is the first introduction of the concept. You can include a link to the Head sampling section to direct readers where to go to learn more.

Reviewer: @rohinlohe i think we may benefit from having page dedicated to sampling — describe what head and tail sampling are, and how to configure head sampling.

[Environments](workers/wrangler/environments/) allow you to deploy the same Worker application with different configurations. To configure observability for your environment:
	1. Add the following configuration below `[env.<NAME>]`
	```toml
	[env.<NAME>.observability]
	enabled = true
	head_sampling_rate = 0.1 # optional
	```
	2. Deploy your Worker with `npx wrangler deploy -e <NAME>`
	3. Repeat step 1 and 2 for each environment.

## View logs from the dashboard

> To view Workers logs associated with any deployed Worker using the Cloudflare dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view logs for your Worker:
```

Keep simple?

To view logs for your Worker:

> <Steps>
> 1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account.
> 2. In Account Home, go to **Workers & Pages**.
> 3. In **Overview**, select your **Worker** > and select **Logs**.
> </Steps>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Steps>
1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account.
2. In Account Home, go to **Workers & Pages**.
3. In the **Workers & Pages Overview**, select your **Worker**.
4. Select **Logs**.
</Steps>
```

## Best Practices

### Logging JSON objects

> To get the most out of Workers Logs, it is recommended to log in JSON format. Workers Logs automatically extracts the fields and indexes  TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the most out of Workers Logs, you should log in JSON format. Workers Logs automatically extracts the fields and indexes  TODO
```

+ Explain why?

## Features

### Add custom logs

> By default a Worker will emit execution logs containing details about the Request, Response and related metadata.

Reviewer: If I am reading this I ask, "what is an 'execution' log?"

> In addition, you can add custom logs throughout your code. Any `console.log` statements within your Worker will be visible in Workers Logs. The following example demonstrates a custom `console.log` within a Worker request handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add custom logs throughout your code. Any `console.log` statements within your Worker will be visible in Workers Logs. The following example demonstrates a custom `console.log` within a Worker request handler.
```

<Tabs> <TabItem label="Module Worker" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
export default {
        async fetch(request) {
                const { cf } = request;
                const { city, country } = cf;

                console.log(`Request came from city: ${city} in country: ${country}`);

                return new Response("Hello worker!", {
                        headers: { "content-type": "text/plain" },
                });
        },
};
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Service Worker" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
addEventListener("fetch", (event) => {
        event.respondWith(handleRequest(event.request));
});

/**
 * Respond with hello worker text
 * @param {Request} request
 */
async function handleRequest(request) {
        const { cf } = request;
        const { city, country } = cf;

        console.log(`Request came from city: ${city} in country: ${country}`);

        return new Response("Hello worker!", {
                headers: { "content-type": "text/plain" },
        });
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

> After you deploy the above code, view your Worker's logs in [the dashboard](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#view-logs-from-the-dashboard) or with [real-time logs](/workers/observability/logs/real-time-logs/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you deploy the code above, view your Worker's logs in [the dashboard](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#view-logs-from-the-dashboard) or with [real-time logs](/workers/observability/logs/real-time-logs/).
```

```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

After you deploy the code above, view your Worker's logs in [the dashboard](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#view-logs-from-the-dashboard) or with [real-time logs](/workers/observability/logs/real-time-logs/).

> ### Head-based Sampling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Head-based sampling
```

### Execution Logs

Each Workers invocation returns an execution log that contain details about the Request, Response, and related metadata. TODO

## Limits

| Description                                                        | Retention  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- | 
| Maximum log retention period                                       | 7 Days     |
| Maximum logs per account per day<sup>1</sup>                       | 5 Billion  |
| Maximum log size<sup>2</sup>                                       | 128 KB     |

<sup>1</sup> While Workers Logs is in open beta, there is a daily limit of 5 billion logs per account per day. After the limit is exceed, a 1% head-based sample will be applied for the remainder of the day.

<sup>2</sup> A single log has a maximum size limit of [128 KB](workers/platform/limits/#log-size). Logs exceeding that size will be truncated and the log's `$cloudflare.truncated` field will be set to true.

> ## Pricing

Reviewer: We also have main pricing page for workers here, may want to use a partial

https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/platform/pricing/

| -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
|    1     | `console.log("user_id: " + 123)`                           | `{message: "user_id: 123"}`                   |
|    2     | `console.log({user_id: 123})`                              | `{user_id: 123}`                              |
|    3     | `console.log({user_id: 123, user_email: "a@example.com"})` | `{user_id: 123, user_email: "a@example.com"}` |

The difference between these examples is in how you index your logs to enable faster queries. In scenario 1, the `user_id` is embedded within a message. To find all logs relating to a particular user_id, you would have to run a text match. In scenarios 2 and 3, your logs can be filtered against the keys `user_id` and `user_email`. 

## Features

### Execution Logs

Each Workers invocation returns a single execution log that contains details such as the Request, Response, and related metadata. These execution logs can be identified by the field `$cloudflare.$metadata.type = "cf-worker-event"`. Each execution log is enriched with information available to Cloudlare in the context of the invocation.  

> In the Workers Logs UI, logs are presented with a localized timestamp and a Message. The Message is dependent on the invocation handler. For example, Fetch requests will have a message describing the request method and the request URL, while cron events will be listed as cron. Below is a list of invocation handlers along with their execution message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Workers Logs UI, logs are presented with a localized timestamp and a message. The message is dependent on the invocation handler. For example, Fetch requests will have a message describing the request method and the request URL, while cron events will be listed as cron. Below is a list of invocation handlers along with their execution message.
```

| Invocation Handler                                              | Execution Message          |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| [Alarm](/durable-objects/api/alarms/)                           | \<Scheduled Time\>         |
| [Email](/email-routing/email-workers/runtime-api/)              | \<Email Recipient\>        |
| [Fetch](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/)                  | \<Method\> \<URL\>         |
| [Queue](/queues/configuration/javascript-apis/#consumer)        | \<Queue Name\>             |
| [Cron](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/scheduled/)               | \<UNIX-cron schedule\>     |
| [Tail](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/tail/)                    | tail                       |
| [RPC](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/)                               | \<RPC method\>             |
| [WebSocket](/workers/examples/websockets/)                      | \<WebSocket Event Type\>   |

### Add custom logs

> By default a Worker will emit [execution logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#execution-logs) containing details about the Request, Response and related metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default a Worker will emit [execution logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#execution-logs) containing details about the request, response and related metadata.
```
